---
layout: post
title: "'Let’s Talk about Mental Health' Event Recap"
image: /images/blog-images/2021/july/mental-health-event.png
topic: "Event"
date: 2021-08-02
---

Our event, “Let’s Talk about Mental Health,” partnered with ASHA has spread awareness to the prevailing issue of mental health amongst teenagers. Dr. Diane Kauffman starts off the event by asking the participants to understand, admit, accept, acknowledge, and educate themselves about mental health. She goes on to say that mental health is an invisible quality that impacts daily life and an ability to have a healthy balance. 1 in 5 children ages 6 to 17 experience a mental health condition. Fifty percent of all mental illnesses begin by age 14. Suicide is the 10th leading cause of death in the United States. ASHA believes that sometimes we forget that we are the main healing light. Therefore, suicide prevention day is every single day.

The event had 3 storytellers share their journey with mental health. Aarna, a senior in high school, has struggled with anxiety and depression. She moved from India to America when she was in her freshman year of high school. Outside of school, she tends to work in social justice. While she would do so, she would always tell herself that she has no reason to feel sad or anxious because she had no trauma. When she was feeling anxious, she would use the term “worry” as opposed to a harsher term when voicing her feelings. Therefore, she would invalidate her own mental health. She classifies herself as a perfectionist and a fix-it person, which may have contributed to her anxiety levels. However, talking with her friends immensely helped her. Later on, she was diagnosed with anxiety and depression, and she started attending therapy sessions. In the middle of sophomore year, she stopped going to therapy. However, she has started therapy once again because of college applications. She is an amazing example of a teenager who is now able to help her mental health when she is in a rough situation.

The second storyteller is Audrey. She has been stressed about her body. She ate less and less until she developed an eating disorder. Essentially, she thought her problems could be solved if she looked like the models she was seeing. She classifies her recovery as long and exhausting. Nonetheless, talking with her mom and doctor was really important as they were the ones who were always by her side. She wants to let people know that mental health is not taboo. Furthermore, she wants to open up a conversation to provide help. Overall, she hopes that those who need help will reach out to someone who can help them.

Ms. Steele, Audrey’s mom, is the third storyteller. Ms. Steele observed Audrey’s physical transformation over the summer, so she suggested going to the doctor for a check-up. Audrey was diagnosed with anorexia. Ms. Steele explains that an eating disorder is both a physical and a mental crisis. Kids can die of heart arrest because of the difference in the resting heart rate. Ms. Steele wondered what she could have done as a parent to help prevent her daughter from being in this condition. Still, she urges parents to not blame themselves because this is not the solution for their children. She wants parents to normalize mental health to their own generation. She feels that there should be no judgement when going through something as serious as a mental health disorder.

All in all, ASHA has asked their participants to “Join the conversation, end stigma, save lives.” ASHA storytellers and speakers wish that friends and family take care of each other’s mental health. If additional help is needed, it is highly recommended to visit a therapist or a hotline. Furthermore, both text and calling crisis hotlines are known to be extremely helpful. Mental health resources are listed here on [ASHA’s website](https://myasha.org/bipoc-mental-health-resources/).
